Asset Distribution
==================

Started with issuing 10,000 ARCHINGKAOS.

Current price for one (1) transfer and store of information, using Arching Kaos Infochain is 1 ARCHINGKAOS.

Supposely, after someone acquires 1 ARCHINGKAOS, it's possible to reuse it by sending either to 
theirselves, or recycling it on their wallets, while transfering and posting content.

Theoritically, when someone learns something, they don't forget and they can do the learnt thing, again 
and again.

Because of that and due to the trust issues that governing our relations, the distribution of the asset 
is something very important.

The ultimate goal here is for everyone to be able to trust each other. That would mean that on earth, 
peace have been achieved and actions of people are based on their hearts with compassion, intuition and 
love.

The point is not to just give away to everyone, neither to restrict within a closed community of the 
"awesome". The point is to maintain a caring community and expand it. Sky is the limit, maybe there is no 
limit at all!

So, since 2019, the start of the project over the internet called Arching Kaos, there were and some still 
are some contributors that put trust in the project along its subprojects: The contributors! Each one of 
them, will get 1 ARCHINGKAOS to start with.

After a holder makes use of it, they can bring people into the network, having also the responsibility of 
who they bring in.

Previous thoughts
-----------------

Another way of managing ARCHINGKAOS would be from a central automaton that could create a "bonding" BLOCK 
that could much someone's Stellar address with one generated and managed from the automaton. Think it 
like this: when we touch, we don't really touch. So when you are getting ARCHINGKAOS, you are NOT getting 
ARCHINGKAOS. Someone else is holding them for you. It is like a lottery on a phone game. But instead of 
getting to play or get paid and go, you just ask for some when you need them to package your stuff.

Further reading
---------------

Since it's possible for everyone to reproduce this system into other assets, I guess doing so is the best 
way to expand the system. Read more on HACKING.
